# final_project
Group 5 Final Project
In this project we set out to test which type of machine learning model was best for predicting loan defaults.  Here we sourced banking data from Kaggle (see referenced link) and converted it into a Pandas Dataframe.  From there we created our training and testing data sets as well as applied a standard scaler to the data.  We evaluated the performance of 4 variations of machine learning models.  The models here are Random Forest, KNN, Kerras deep learning, and Logistic Regression Models. All four results yielded about 91% accuracy overall but were giving us a lot False Negatives.  
The accuracy being uniform seemed strange, we looked deeper and noticed that in our data about 91% of the target results were 0. From there we were able to conclude our model was predicting 0 everytime and happened to be right 91% of the time. We tried to tinker with our models. We tried stratification, which did lower our False Negatives in an insignificant way.  We tried working with the data directly as well.  Specifically we went took our 10 and 5 most imoportant columns, in terms of weight on the model, and reran the model on just them.  Again the changes were insignificant.  We also looked at value counts of the target grouped by different columns. If any of them were nearly unanimously 0 we would remove those entries.  We had hoped this would remove entire variables weighing towards the target 0. It did not. 
We then tried random under sampling, which got us much closer to an ideal model. We then eventually tried random over sampling, which got us a 97% accurate model. It also very significantly decreased the number of False Negatives. So much so that the level become acceptable for both KNN and Random Forest Models.  It did however greatly hurt the accuracy of the Keras Sequential Model and the Logistic Regression Model.  While the accuracy was lowered, it is a positive in the sense that it was actually trying to make predicitions and not just spitting out target 0 guesses. It also makes it clear which models to rule out as viable and which to keep. 


Data Source-"https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/gauravduttakiit/loan-defaulter?select=application_data.csv"
